# Slapdash

*Slap up a dashboard in minutes or less*

Slapdash is a data dashboard that's focused on simplicity and ease of use. If you need a dashboard and you want something quick, simple and free then this is for you.

## Installation

If you have Rust installed then it's as simple as

```bash
cargo install slapdash
```

If you don't then you have two options:

- [Install Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) and then use the command above.
- Or use of the [Precompiled binaries](). Download it, place it somewhere in your `PATH` and make it executable.

## Usage

### Start the slapdash server:

```bash
slapdash serve &
```

### Push data to the dashboard

All data in Slapdash is numerical and each data `point` is contained in a single named `series`.

To add a data `point` to a given `series` simply make an HTTP GET request to:

```
http://localhost:8080/<secret>/<series name>/<point value>
```

For example

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/dDO1fgpw6LPWs3ciZCTnpdr7yaPQbzTG/cpu_temperature_c/41.45
```

The `secret` is a secret number that is generated by Slapdash and can be found in the file `~/.slapdash/secret.txt`.

Alternatively you can run:

```bash
slapdash push <series name> <point value>
```

### View your dashboard

Your dashboard is online at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

Slapdash can serve multiple dashboards, each at `http://localhost:8080/<dashboard name>`. There is a `default` dashboard which is served if no dashboard name is specified.

### Create a new dashboard

```bash
slapdash dashboard new my_amazing_dashboard
```

### Edit a dashboard

Each dashboard is configured by the file `~/.slapdash/dashboards/<dashboard name>.xml`. Use you favorite code editor to edit the configuration file. You should get autocomplete and validation due to the provided schema file. Changes to dashboard configuration files are picked up immediately by the server.

## Dashboard configuration

The dashboard configuration defines what widgets are on your dashboard and how they are arranged. There are several types of widgets and layout components:

### Layout Components

Layout components arrage the widgets on your dashboard. They can contain widgets and layout components. They may also specify default values for `color`, `width` and `height` of any contained widgets:

```xml
<row widget_width="3" widget_height="2" widget_color="DeepOrange">
</row>
```

#### Row

A horizontal stack of components. It can contain widgets, rows and columns.

```xml
<row>
    <!-- ... widgets -->
</row>
```

#### Column

A vertical stack of components. It can contain widgets, rows and columns.

```xml
<column>
    <!-- ... widgets -->
</column>
```

### Widgets

Widgets display data on your dashboard. All widgets have attributes for `color`, `width` and `height`, which are optional.

#### Label

A hardcoded text display widget. Good for making titles to dashboard sections.

```xml
<label text="Hello, world!" />
```

#### Freshness

Displays the number of minutes since the last update to the given series.

```xml
<freshness series="cpu_temp_c" />
```

#### Value

A textual display of the latest value of the given series.

```xml
<value series="cpu_temp_c" />
```

#### Gauge

Displays a gauge type widget which shows the latest value of the given series relative to given maximum and minimum values.

```xml
<gauge series="cpu_temp_c" min="0" max="100 />
```

#### Line

A line chart of the history of the given series over the past 24 hours.

```xml
<line series="cpu_temp_c">
```


